hey guys so this is responsive video and
before you think what I think you're
going to think suppose you know that I
only chose to do this video because I
really believe in the product and that
product is called Skillshare they're an
online learning community with over
15,000 classes in things like
photography design and a lot more anyone
can try a class do a project or even
upload a class on your own now I wish I
could say that these tips are mine that
I thought of them but actually I just
went on to Skillshare and looked at some
of their classes and borrowed these
ideas so let's get into the video as
cliche as it is I'm big believer in you
finding yourself and knowing who you are
and that being your art style but the
problem with like personal growth and
defining your voice is that it takes
time and nobody's got time for that here
which again sample day so practical way
to approach this is to create an
influencer map and this kit comes from
Christine nishiyama scores called
absolute bootcamp developing your style
she actually gives you a downloadable
influence map that you can fill out and
then all of a sudden BAM you know who
you are okay it's not that simple but by
being able to visualize your influences
such as the music your life that TV
shows you enjoy the stories that you
identify with you'll be able to figure
out what your influences are and that'll
help guide you in developing your answer
when you draw or create something that
you're really proud of you get a little
heat of happiness and it's just really
exciting and you just want more of that
feeling the problem is that we start
needing that feeling every single time
we sit down to create and when we don't
get it we get discouraged and this evil
applock feeling raises its ugly head so
tip number four comes from a class
called draw draw draw growing your
skills while developing your art styles
by Ryan's last week's drawing what you
struggle with might be something like
hands perspectives Anatomy
to me it was storytelling so what I do
was I went and created a webcomic
and sure that web con is not going to
with me any amazing awards but that was
just an exercise for me to draw whether
I struggle with yeah I wouldn't have
been able to do it without having the
proof in my mindset which is something
that I outlined in a previous video but
yeah the key is to be willing to crash
and burn and learn so yeah if we were to
visualize this method scientifically it
would look something like this
[Music]
so it is a class called exploring your
illustration style exercises to push
your work by Ryan Putnam and there's a
bunch of exercises in there but there is
one that really stood out to me when you
get a really big stick and then he takes
a marker to the end of the stick and
then he just like drawing with the stick
now this thing's ridiculous but the idea
is to find those happy accidents when
you're just experimenting and maybe
it'll start something okay and just to
make this a bit harder I'm not going to
leave the page with my marker I'm just
going to keep it or one continuous line
[Music]
see you like some of the lines and
developing a really different style to
what I'm normally used to drawing like
and yeah it looks a bit dodgy but
someone that actually looks kind of nice
like there's a I get abstract style
going on there okay so that was really
cool and it actually turned out a lot
better than I thought it wouldn't and
there actually is kind of a different
style of what I'm normally used to
drawing like and yeah I can actually use
this as a basis for like a cool abstract
portrait or something like that or maybe
you have a profile picture yes cool
[Music]
there's actually another course by an
artist called Yuko Shimizu called in
throwing techniques brush nib and pencil
now this course is what really drew me
into Skillshare you guys work is
incredible and she's based in New York
and she's an instructor at the School of
Visual Arts which is really really good
for someone like me that's following
Sydney Australia but doesn't get access
to these types of instructions and
world-class institutions on top of that
there just is really creative vibe to
the classes you can even take you down
to the local art supply store in New
York and shows you all the her favorite
brush nibs ink and paper types yeah it's
just really amazing and they're really
awesome interring as a whole other love
me and it was really inspiring to see
her work and how she does her work
and it made me think about how I could
try to involve my heart style to
incorporate this new medium that I've
never explored before
but there's one discipline that really
changed the way that I view my art and
just view the world around me and that
is graphic design the goal that I think
is really great is one called design for
meaning creating effective and artistic
book cover designs by a Dominican Peter
Mandelson's now you're probably thinking
I don't care like what does graphic
design have to do illustration like
you're not just choosing a font and
using the fill tool the most important
thing about design is the added is still
meaning into a visual language this pops
up all throughout our lives it's the
reasons and companies have distinct
personalities it's the reason we
ridiculous like Comic Sans and it's the
reason why some artists can recreate it
seen beyond just realistically
photocopying it and they're able to add
their own unique Flair in things called
the other really interesting exercise
where he gets a short story or a poem
and he breaks it down so he searches for
the underlying themes and then he
brainstorms what kind of visual
metaphors might arise from that
it's an incredible course and I feel
like had I never been exposed to other
disciplines I would have just gone down
a path obsessed with realism and not
realizing how powerful abstraction and
design language can be in communicating
with people
[Music]
okay so this isn't a classroom skill
shares but you know maybe there isn't
one I just don't know about it or maybe
I should make it one but the number one
tip is to draw what makes you happy have
the courage to be yourself be vulnerable
and screw what anyone else thinks for me
growing up I don't always draw things
like robots or comic book characters
which is cool and find and if that's
what you really like to do you should
100% go for it but as I grew older I
kind of wanted to explore more human
themes things about daily life and
relationships and I've always been
pretty cheesy like my favorite showing
of The Wonder Years and however your
mother and I really like the romantic
comedies so having the carrier to put
that into my heart work and risk looking
like a fool has been one of the best
decisions I've ever made and I wouldn't
have been able to do that if I didn't
have the courage to just be myself
and take the criticism and people you
know laughing at you or thinking that
it's really kitty or stupid just do what
you want and don't be afraid of it and
even to this day oh and worry like if
I'm going to regret uploading an image
or one of these videos because it's a
level of honesty that most people aren't
used to in their daily interactions so
yeah being a nutters is hard and you got
to be vulnerable you've got our courage
anyway I hope you found this video
helpful let me know what your art style
influences are in the comments below and
don't forget to check out Skillshare
it's $10 a month for a premium
membership and you get access to
everything if that's still a bit too
expensive for you I have a special offer
it's a two month free trial just click
on the link in the description below and
you'll get access to it and that's it
for me so I'll see you guys in the next
video bye
[Music]